Anne: At first he wasn't sure
that we should have kids,
and I'm like, “what are you talking about?”
He's like, “well, you know,
what if the kids are DeafBlind?”
I mean, he had concerns.
“Are you going to be able to do it?”
You know, and I basically did say,
“are you saying that I shouldn't be alive?”
I mean, we had some heated
discussions about it.
Not heated, but...
...well, yeah, heated.
[music plays]
Renee: In my family,
on my father's side,
there are three brothers
and sisters that have Usher.
Two females and an uncle.
So it's a total of three individuals
who have Usher.
Now, in the entire family
there are seven individuals who have Usher,
and that includes me as well,
a younger brother,
and we're both deaf with Usher.
Brian: When two people are carriers of Usher syndrome,
it’s a recessive trait and
there's about a 25% chance
of passing it on,
and I happened to be the one
member of my family with Usher syndrome.
As far as we know, nobody else in
the family has an official diagnosis
of Usher syndrome, although obviously
my parents were both carriers of it
and probably had family members
with it at some point.
So I happened to be the lucky one that has it.
[music plays]
Renee: So before we got married,
I do want to say thatwe went
to several workshops on Usher.
They gave us genetic
counseling as well.
So we both did that together
and we did our research
because we said, “what if we decide
to have children someday?”
So we started to get a lot of information
on genetics, learned a lot.
And my wife actually,
her genetics are dominant.
I have the recessive gene,
so there's a less chance or probability
that they will have Usher.
But at the same time I'm a carrier,
I have 25% possibility that a
child would come out with Usher.
Anne: My husband is sighted
and hearing, he's a mechanic.
You know, we talked about having kids.
He was nervous about it.
He thought we should
have genetic testing.
And, a couple of things:
one is, I said, “both parents have
to have Usher syndrome,
and you do not, you know,
so we'll be fine.”
But also I was kind of like...
...I would still be born.
I would still want to be born and
have my life, even if I had known,
you know, my life is still worth it
and I still love my life and I have a great life.
So, you know, I wouldn't
not have a kid because
they have Usher syndrome.
I think it was a concern
to my husband, Jason,
to me, it wasn't really a concern.
And I don't know if that’s good
or bad or normal, I just...
Brian: After conception with the first child,
we did do the genetic test and
she’s not a carrier of Usher syndrome.
It did not affect our decision
whether or not to have a child.
We went forward with the decision
knowing that it was a possibility.
I'm currently married with two daughters
and, as far as we know,
our daughters don't have it either.
Everyone in my life is typically sighted
and typically hearing.
Renee: I have four children
and they're not DeafBlind.
They're all hearing
and they're good.
[music plays]
Brian: I live a happy and fulfilling life.
And so, if I had a child with DeafBlindness,
I would be perfectly okay with that.
And this might not be a popular opinion,
but I think for me there is
a sense of pride in being DeafBlind.
It would have been nice
to have a child with DeafBlindness.
There are things I've learned
throughout my lifetime
that I could share with that particular child.
In a lot of ways they relate to their mother
more in the way that they do things.
Renee: They would be a part of the
deaf community, you know,
if they were deaf, then they could
relate to me, so that’s...
...that's good.
If they were DeafBlind,
I'm not sure.
I have so many experiences.
I have the pros and the cons of both.
So it's definitely a tough life to navigate,
being DeafBlind,
so I'm not sure what to answer.
Anne: I didn't have concerns that my kids
were going to have Usher syndrome or be DeafBlind.
I really didn't.
I think,
knowing that I grew up,
I had an amazing family,
I was blessed. I had an amazing
upport system and I grew up fine.
And I do know people who
won't have kids because of it,
and to me that's sad.
I guess I understand they're scared,
they're worried about the challenges,
and I'm not going to lie,
I mean, there are some challenges
that make it more difficult, but I wouldn't
change it.
[music ends]